Now, seeing how we're talking about returning HTML from C++, wouldn't it be really cool if you could

actually write HTML right inside your C++ code?

Well, unfortunately, this isn't visual basic for you.

You can't do this kind of thing, but what you can do is you can sort of approach it.

So in a way you can construct a domain specific language which allows you to construct HTML like constructs

in valid C++ using uniform initialization syntax.

So that's exactly what we're going to take a look at in this demo.

And for this demo, what I'm going to do is I'm going to define a structure called a tag.

So this is once again this idea of having an HTML element.

This time I'm going to call it tax just because it's shorter, but the idea is roughly the same.

So you have a tag which consists of a name and text.

You also have a vector of children, which can be the tax inside this tag.

And in addition, you can also have a TEMEL attribute.

So that's the new thing that I'm going to add to this particular demo.

So I'm going to have a vector of pairs of strings which indicate the key value pairs for the HTML attributes,

and I'm going to call them attributes like.

So now what we're going to do is we're going to take a look at how to actually use this tag as a base

class in order to allow the clients to actually write something which looks a lot like HTML.

So first of all, I will add the output operator.

So the stream output operator, that's going to be useful for actually printing the whole thing.

And it is a rather involved chunk of code.

So I'm just going to drop it in here and we're not really going to discuss it.

So let me just say that we define the stream output operator on the tag to print all the tags, including

all the children and all the content correctly.

That's what this chunk of code does.

Now, the interesting part comes after.

So suppose we have the tag.

We're going to add a couple of constructors.

I'm actually going to make them protected.

So we're going to have just a couple of constructors.

First of all, we'll have a constructor which initializes the tag using the name as well as the text.

So we're going to have this.

As you can see, I've generated it here.

But in addition, we're also going to have a tag which gets initialized by its name, but instead of

the text is going to have a bunch of children.

So I'm going to once again go and generate the constructor.

So this time around, we're interested in the name and the children.

I'm going to press OK here once again.

And as you can see, what's happening here is we have two arguments.

We have the string name, the name of the tag, as well as a vector reference for the children.

So this is great.

Now, if you think about HTML, it has concrete implementations of different tags, like, for example,

a paragraph.

So we're going to define a paragraph as an inherited class.

I'm going to have struct p p Stancil paragraph and that's going to be an HTML tag.

Now, what we're going to do is we're going to make a constructor which initializes both the name as

well as the text.

Now we know what the name is.

The name is going to be P because that's what the tag actually is.

But when it comes to tax will simply proxy that over.

So let's see what we can do here.

And in terms of generating the constructor, so we're going to have a constructor which initializes

both of these.

But instead of the name here.

Well, I'm going to do is I'm going to put the P tag in here.

So I'm going to put just a lowercase P in here and I'm going to get rid of the name argument because

we know what the name of this particular attack is.

OK, so this is great, but we can do something better because a paragraph, as it happens, can also

have some children of its own.

Maybe you have an image inside a paragraph.

That's a completely valid thing to have an image inside a paragraph.

So let's add that.

So the way you would do this is you would have a paragraph which can be initialized not with the text,

but with a bunch of children.

And what I'm going to do here is I'm going to use and initialize the list.

So I'm going to use and initialize a list of type tags.

So this tag, the tag P is going to take in its constructor a bunch of other tags.

So here we go.

We're going to have a bunch of children.

And these children, they can actually be assigned to a vector of surprise, surprise.

You can take and initialize a list and stick it into a vector wholesale.

So once again, we're going to call the base class, which in our case is called tag, and we're going

to call it with the name P as before.

And the second argument is going to be the children.

So essentially what's happening here is when you provide the children as an initialized list, it actually

goes in here as a vector.

So fairly obvious stuff.

We're not going to add anything more to the P tag.

The P tag is just fine.

Let's add another tag.

Just to illustrate the concept even more, we're going to have an image tag.

So an image tag is a tag which.

Doesn't really contain anything, and because it doesn't contain anything, we're actually not going

to give it a constructor, which takes an the list, which is going to give it a different constructor,

which specifies that you are aware of the image that you want to show.

So we'll have a constructor called ACMG, which is going to take a string specifying that you are of

the image.

And of course, the URL is specified as an attribute.

No, not as an inner tag or anything.

So once again, we call the base class tag.

The name is IMG and we have to use the constructor, which takes the text, but there is no text.

I'm just going to put an empty string in here.

OK, but we do need to put something in the constructor itself and what we're going to put in here.

Let me just move this so that it's more clear.

What we're going to put in here is an instruction to add an attribute.

So I'm going to say attributes.

Dalton plays back and I'm going to make a pair here where the name of the attribute is SIRC.

That's how you make the source of the image.

And the actual source is that you are well, that's being provided.

OK, so let's put the semicolon in here.

OK, so why did we do all of this?

Well, because we've just built a very unique and very unusual domain specific language, if you will,

which allows us to construct HTML, which looks like HTML.

Let me show you so you can have let's say you have C out and then I'll just do a couple of Lindberg's

so you can make a paragraph and then things to uniform initialization.

You can just open the curly brace in here and have the closing curly brace in here.

And inside the paragraph you can have an image.

And once again, thanks to uniform initialization, you can just specify the image you are here.

So it would be something like http Pokémon, dot com Pikachu, dot PNG, something like that.

So we have a paragraph and we have the image inside it.

And I will now add maybe the headline here as a kind of finishing touch and we can actually print this

stuff out, interestingly enough, because all that we have written right now is valid.

C++, even though it looks like almost like HTML without the without the obviously the actual tags as

they look in HDMI.

But it's very similar.

What we have is very similar and here is the output.

So as you can see, we have a paragraph and we have the image inside that paragraph.

So all I'm trying to show here is that thanks to just a single mechanism of uniform initialization and

C++, what you can do is you can construct these kind of pseudo DNS.

And furthermore, it's interesting to note that you can actually constrain what elements go inside,

what other elements by defining different constructors on all of these elements.

So, for example, the image cannot contain anything else that cannot contain all the tags.

So it simply doesn't have a constructor which takes and initialize the list.

So this is a smaller side to the overall discussion of the builder concept.

But essentially it's very similar because you're using or abusing, depending on how you look at it,

where abusing uniform initialization to define structures in a more natural, more understandable way.
